---
title: "Welcome to alt-3.uk!"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Pinned
comments: false
---

At *alt-3.uk* we provide better league tables, for some of the most prominent 
football (soccer) leagues.

The league tables presented here are better because, during the football season, 
they are almost always **more informative** than the usual kind of table 
that's based on the number of league points gained so far.

Our league tables account fully, in a mathematically principled way,
for the differences between teams' match schedules to date in
the current season.  Some teams will have played relatively "easy" matches,
and other teams relatively "tough" matches, purely as a result of the quasi-random 
matchday fixtures that are allocated before the season starts.  The *alt-3.uk* league 
tables show clearly which teams are actually doing better 
than their "points already in the bag" would suggest, 
and which teams are doing less well.

At the end of the season, of course, it is only the "points in the bag" that matter!  The 
*alt-3.uk* tables are designed to respect fully 
the fact that the league awards 3 points for a win and 
1 point for a draw.  So whenever there is *no* difference in difficulty 
between teams' schedules played to date --- as is the case at the end of the season ---
the *alt-3.uk* table will agree *exactly* with the usual ranking by accumulated points.

For full details, including the mathematics behind all this 
and various other background information, 
please visit [**About alt-3.uk**](/about).

It's a piece of neat mathematics (in my opinion!) applied to "the beautiful game".
I hope you will enjoy it.
  
*David*  
August 2017


