---
title: "Premier league after 5 matches: Everton not really showing relegation form (yet!)"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
---

The match schedules faced so far by Everton and West Ham 
this season are such that we should not rush to condemn their early
form. Both clubs climb clear of the relegation zone in the 
[*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league/), 
which is based on a coherent mathematical model rather than 
just on 'points in the bag'.

In their first five games, Everton have already faced Man City, Man Utd,
Chelsea and Spurs; and three of their five 
matches have been away from home.

In West Ham's case, the opposition has not been quite so strong but
four of their five matches to date have been played away from home.

Our alternative table is designed to show how well teams are *really*
doing, taking full account of who has been played already (and where).
For more detail on how and why this all works, see 
the [**About alt-3.uk**](/about/) section.

Other movers in this week's *alt-3* table include *Arsenal*.
Although Arsenal have *not* suffered an especially hard match-schedule
to date, life has been even easier for some of their near neighbours
in the table.  Arsenal move up from 12th on 'points in the bag', to 9th
in the *alt-3* table.  The three teams leapfrogged by Arsenal ---
that's Huddersfield, Southampton and West Brom --- have all had a
relatively soft start to the season.

The next update to the *alt-3* table will be on Tuesday, when all
clubs will have played six matches.

