---
title: "City and United pull clear at the top --- and Everton really *are* now showing relegation form"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
---

This weekend's Premier League results saw Man U beat Spurs, which 
puts United firmly back in 2nd spot in the
[*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league). 

Spurs,
who had been ranked just ahead of United coming into this weekend's
fixtures, drop to 4th place, just behind Chelsea.  Although
Chelsea have one point less in the bag than Spurs do, Chelsea have played
tougher fixtures so far than Spurs --- which is reflected in
the difference between their schedule-strength figures in the 
*alt-3* table.

### Everton: Should Koeman really have been sacked?

I [commented last week](../../22/epl) 
on Everton's rather misleading position in the standard
league table.  They were 'languishing in the bottom three' 
in the words of one national newspaper.  In the fairer *alt-3* table, 
though, last week **Everton were actually in 12th position**, not 
18th --- 
the reason being that Everton had faced an unusually hard fixture 
list in the first 9 matches of this season.

Everton have since sacked their manager, Ronald Koeman.  And today 
they lost again, at Leicester. For the first time this season,
even the *alt-3* table now puts Everton in the bottom 5 in the table:
their strongly positive schedule-strength rating (currently at +2.1) 
is not enough to place them in mid-table any longer.

It is hard to know, of course, exactly why Everton sacked Koeman.
But if it *was* related to those 'bottom three' headlines, then it 
might reasonably be argued that the club should have held their nerve.
Certainly Koeman's dismissal does not seem to have helped Everton in the 
short term!







