---
title: "Liverpool still above Spurs; and Southampton firmly in the relegation zone"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
categories: 
  - "Premier League"
---

Just 8 matchdays left now in this season's Premier League. Most clubs will play 4 at 
home and 4 away in the remaining weeks, so the schedule-strength imbalances are steadily
diminishing now.  But the 
[**_alt-3_ league table**](/leagues/england-premier-league)
still reveals a couple of interesting stories at present.

## Liverpool still have the edge over Spurs, in terms of league standing

After the weekend's results, when Liverpool lost at Man Utd but Spurs won at Bournemouth,
the official Premier League table now has Spurs one point ahead of Liverpool.

The [**_alt-3_ table**](/leagues/england-premier-league) still shows Liverpool ahead, 
though (again by around 1 point).

The reason is that while Spurs have played a fairly 'typical' set of match fixtures up
to now, Liverpool have had a harder time.  The two clubs' current _alt-3_ schedule-strength
ratings are respectively &minus;0.3 (Spurs) and +1.6 (Liverpool).

The simplest way to see what this means is to look at [**Liverpool's schedule-strength 
chart**](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-Liv). 
In their remaining 8 matches,
Liverpool face just one fixture
that should be regarded as appreciably harder than average (their away match at Chelsea).

Spurs on the other hand, as well as themselves having to play
Chelsea away soon, will also
face Manchester City at home. [**Tottenham's schedule-strength 
chart**](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-Tot)

So it's a tight race for the 3rd spot in the final league table, but as things currently
stand Liverpool are just edging it.

## Southampton now in the relegation zone

Although the official Premier League table currently has Southampton in 17th place,
the more informative [**_alt-3_ table**](/leagues/england-premier-league) places them
lower than that, in fact in 19th place at present 
(just below fellow strugglers Stoke City).

The reason is [as explained in last week's post about the relegation battle](/2018/03/06/epl-relegation-battle/): Southampton face an uncommonly tough set of fixtures in the 
run-in to the end of this season.

It's getting near the time when 
goal difference could matter, though --- and Stoke's goal difference
is markedly worse than Southampton's. So it's fair to say they that both Southampton and 
Stoke look to be prime candidates for relegation unless their form changes.

- [**Southampton's schedule-strength 
chart**](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-Sot)

<hr>

To see any other club's 
schedule-strength chart, just click on the club name in
the [*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league).

















