---
title: "Premier League after 12: Bournemouth and Chelsea 
have had it easy so far;  West Ham and Wolves much less so."
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
categories: 
  - "Premier League"
---

The current
     [**_alt-3_ table**](/leagues/england-premier-league)
shows the "real" Premier League standings after making proper adjustment for
_schedule strength_ (the mathematically coherent measure of relative
	  difficulty for each team's match-fixtures to date).

Some of the stories from the current table:
     
- **Tottenham Hotspur** have actually done a bit better than **Chelsea** so far,
  once Chelsea's markedly easier fixture list to date is taken into account.  That
  puts **Spurs in 3rd place** right now, above Chelsea in 4th.

- **Wolverhampton Wanderers**, having faced a relatively tough set of fixtures that
  leaves them (in effect) now  with a bit more than a whole game in hand, have
  a slightly better record so far than all three of
  **Watford**, **AFC Bournemouth** and
  **Leicester City** ---
  teams that are are placed higher in the official league table.
  That puts Wolves up at 8th in the _alt-3_ table, at this point (vs 11th in the
  official table that does not take schedule strength into account).

- **Bournemouth** have had --- by some distance --- the easiest fixtures so far
  of any Premier League club.  Their schedule-strength rating is &minus;2.4,
  implying the opposite of "games in hand":
  **the Cherries are 2.4 matches "in debt"**,
  at this point.  That sees Bournemouth now
  placed 10th in the _alt-3_ table (as opposed
  to 6th in the official Premier League table, which makes no adjustment for
  for the relatively easy match-fixtures to date.)

    A look at [Bournemouth's schedule-strength chart](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-Bou) reveals that the Cherries face a formidably tough
      set of fixtures in their next 17 matches!  By the time they have played
      Manchester City at home,
      10 games into the second half of the season, Bournemouth's
      schedule-strength rating is set to be
      as high as **plus** 2.5.  In effect, then,
      those next 17 matches will provide Bournemouth with only the equivalent of
      around 12 "average" opportunities, in terms of what league points they can
      reasonably expect to accumulate through those matches.

    Bournemouth's fixtures this season not only saw them face the easiest
    first-quarter schedule of any club; they will also have the easiest
    _last-quarter_ schedule, as things stand.  The downside is that in that
    middle part of the season --- between now and matchweek 29 --- the
    Cherries face a very tough time indeed.  
          
    
- **West Ham** continue to hold the prize for the toughest match-fixtures so
  far.  The Hammers' schedule-strength rating is now +2.2, meaning that they
  have in effect a little over **2 games in hand**.
  Unfortunately their nearest rivals, **Brighton**,
  also effectively have a game in hand, and so West Ham remain in 13th place
  even after adjusting for their tough fixtures to date. 

<hr>

To see any club's 
schedule-strength chart, just click on the club name in
the [**_alt-3_ league table**](/leagues/england-premier-league).
    
  

    
















