---
title: "Liverpool now clear 4th; and Huddersfield pulling clear of the relegation scrap?"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
categories: 
  - "Premier League"
---

As I mentioned in the blog a few weeks ago, for the
[_alt-3_ league table](/leagues/england-premier-league)
this time of year is almost certain to be relatively uninteresting!  We
are only just past the halfway point of the Premier League season ---
i.e., the point at which most teams have played all others once --- and so
schedule-strength imbalance is inevitably quite weak at this point.

Still there are one or two features worth noting --- instances 
where accounting properly 
for schedule-strength differences does make a bit of a difference to the
current league table.

## Liverpool

In the official Premier League table, 
recent match results have seen Liverpool move 3 points clear of Spurs,
who are currently their nearest rivals for 4th place in the league.

The current [_alt-3_ table](/leagues/england-premier-league) emphasises
that gap. 

Because Liverpool have played a _slightly harder_ than average
fixture list up to now (with their 
schedule strength currently measured at 
+0.4 points), and Spurs have had a _slightly easier_ than average 
set of fixtures to date (schedule strength &minus;0.6), the effective
points gap is actually 4 rather than 3. 

So it is really **quite a bit 
clearer now which teams are the Premier League's current top 4** than 
it has been in recent weeks.

## Huddersfield Town, and the relegation mega-zone

The lower half of the official Premier League table
currently has ten clubs all very close, within 8 points of one another. 

The current [_alt-3_ table](/leagues/england-premier-league), which
takes proper account of schedule-strength differences, has the
**bottom 9 clubs all within 6.2 points** of one another!

Above those 9 clubs, Huddersfield Town in 11th place have now opened up
a bit of a gap.  In the [_alt-3_ table](/leagues/england-premier-league),
Huddersfield currently sit 2.2 _alt-3_ points ahead of Brighton.

Clearly Huddersfield are not out of danger just yet.  But if 
their form so far this season continues, the Terriers _should_ finish
comfortably clear of the relegation places. 
(That's definitely not a prediction, though!)

<hr>

To see any club's current *alt-3* 
schedule-strength chart, just click on the club name in
the [*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league).
















