---
title: "Jos&eacute; Mourinho and the F word: Liverpool still just 
ahead of City though"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
comments: false
categories: 
  - "Premier League"
---

Back in March 2014, when Chelsea topped the table on points but had played more matches than all of their nearest rivals, [Jos&eacute; Mourinho famously called the Premier League table "fake"](http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/26582132). 

He had a point --- the official league table orders teams only on accumulated points,
regardless of games in hand.  And indeed Mourinho's 
Chelsea went on to finish third 
in the league that season, behind Manchester City and Liverpool. 
_(Aside: Mourinho's wisdom did not of course extend to having 
invented the word "fake".  That honour supposedly 
[belonged to Donald Trump, a couple of  years later!](http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/entry/donald-trump-just-tried-to-claim-he-invented-the-word-fake_uk_59da65b4e4b072637c44d8b8))_

Hopefully Mr Mourinho would at least appreciate the 
[*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league), which **does** coherently
take account of games in hand --- and indeed 
does so in such a way that matches against 
lower-placed teams, and home matches, count most strongly as being "in hand".  The
[*alt-3* table](/leagues/england-premier-league) takes proper account of every
team's fixtures played (and hence also fixtures still to play) to provide a more
meaningful picture of current league standings, 
at any point before the end of the season.

# Right now: City have a game in hand, but Liverpool are still ahead (just!)

[This tweet](https://twitter.com/footymath/status/1113031879287103488) pretty 
much says it all. Manchester City currently have a game in hand over Liverpool,
who are two points ahead of City in the official Premier League table. But City's
remaining fixtures are measurably harder than Liverpool's, based 
on current standings of their remaining opponents. Most notably, City
still have to face Spurs (currently 4th) at home, and Manchester United 
(currently 5th) away; whereas Liverpool's remaining fixtures do not involve any
of the current top-five clubs.

**It's very close.**  But Liverpool currently top the _alt-3_ table.  Just.

It should be noted that this is **not in any way a prediction**: rather, it is
simply **a better representation of current league standings**, based on all the 
match results so far this season. 

**Current schedule-strength charts** (kept up to date after each new match result):

- [**Liverpool**](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-Liv/)
- [**Manchester City**](/leagues/england-premier-league/schedule-strength-MnC/)

## What about other Premier League clubs?

To see any Premier League 
team's schedule-strength graph, just click on the team name in the 
current [*alt-3* league table](/leagues/england-premier-league).















